More documentation (#192)
Accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway: docs/event-streams.md

---
id: event-streams
title: Event Streams
sidebar_label: Event Streams
---

Real time part of RIG is driven by events (Kafka/Kinesis) -- to make it work there is some configuration required.

> Where is RIG using event streams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where RIG uses event streams:
```

### Change consumer topics and group ID

As Kafka is enabled, RIG starts to consume events on 2 default topics `rig` and `rig-proxy-response`. `rig` topic is used to consume all events and forward them to client via SSE/WS. `rig-proxy-response` is used for HTTP sync publishing, see [API Gateway docs](./api-gateway#sync).

Change topics:

```bash
# Single topic
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SOURCE_TOPICS=my-topic \
-e PROXY_KAFKA_RESPONSE_TOPICS=my-proxy-topic \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway

# Multiple topics
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SOURCE_TOPICS=my-topic1,my-topic2 \
-e PROXY_KAFKA_RESPONSE_TOPICS=my-proxy-topic1,my-proxy-topic2 \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

In addition to topics you can configure also consumer group ID.
> __NOTE:__ same group ID will be used for all topics.

Change group ID:

```bash
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SOURCE_TOPICS=my-topic \
-e PROXY_KAFKA_RESPONSE_TOPICS=my-proxy-topic \
-e KAFKA_GROUP_ID=my-group-id \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

### Change producer topics

> Rig can produce "monitoring" events when HTTP endpoint is called in proxy and as a target of HTTP endpoint itself, see [API Gateway docs](./api-gateway#sync).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RIG can produce "monitoring" events on incoming HTTP requests, see [API Gateway docs](./api-gateway#sync).
```

accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

### SSL

SSL for Kafka is by default disabled. To enable it and set certificates use following setup:

```bash
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SSL_ENABLED=1 \
-e KAFKA_SSL_KEYFILE_PASS=abcdefgh \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway

# Change default paths for certificates
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SSL_ENABLED=1 \
-e KAFKA_SSL_KEYFILE_PASS=abcdefgh \
-e KAFKA_SSL_CA_CERTFILE=my.ca.crt.pem \
-e KAFKA_SSL_CERTFILE=my.crt.pem \
-e KAFKA_SSL_KEYFILE=my.key.pem \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

### SASL

SASL for Kafka is by default disabled. To enable it and set credentials use following setup:

```bash
docker run \
-e KAFKA_BROKERS=kafka:9092 \
-e KAFKA_SASL=plain:myusername:mypassword \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

## Kinesis

### Enable Kinesis

Similar as Kafka, Kinesis is by default disabled and can be enabled via `KINESIS_ENABLED` environment variable.

```bash
# Kinesis disabled
docker run accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway

# Kinesis enabled
docker run -e KINESIS_ENABLED=1 accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway

# Configure AWS region

> docker run -e KINESIS_ENABLED=1 -e KINESIS_AWS_REGION=eu-west-3 accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway

Reviewer: wouldn't you need to use the aws docker-tag?

Author: True, good point!

```

### Change consumer stream and app name

As Kinesis is enabled, RIG starts to consume events on default stream `RIG-outbound`. `RIG-outbound` topic is used to consume all events and forward them to client via SSE/WS.

Change stream:

```bash
docker run \
-e KINESIS_ENABLED=1 \
-e KINESIS_STREAM=my-stream \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

In addition to stream, you can configure also app name. Kinesis is using value of `KINESIS_APP_NAME` as a name for DynamoDB table. DynamoDB is internally used by Amazon to handle leases and consumer groups. It's similar to group ID in Kafka.

Change app name:

```bash
docker run \
-e KINESIS_ENABLED=1 \
-e KINESIS_STREAM=my-stream \
-e KINESIS_APP_NAME=my-app_name \
accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway
```

### Change producer streams

> Rig can produce events as a target of HTTP endpoint call, see [API Gateway docs](./api-gateway#sync).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RIG can produce events as a target of HTTP endpoint call, see [API Gateway docs](./api-gateway#sync).
```
